fix(ins): details about routed IPv6 (#4044)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/instances/how-to/migrate-routed-ips.mdx

  - compute
---

> During deployment, each Instance prior April 2024 used to get a NAT IP from its hosting node, besides its public IP, which is routed to the Instance through a [carrier-grade NAT](/compute/instances/concepts/#carrier-grade-nat-(cgnat)) solution. However, if the underlying hypervisor changes, the NAT IP changes. This can happen when you restart your Instance. The NAT IP lets Instances communicate via an underlying internal network, without public IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During deployment, each Instance created before April 2024 used to get a NAT IP from its hosting node, besides its public IP, which is routed to the Instance through a [carrier-grade NAT](/compute/instances/concepts/#carrier-grade-nat-(cgnat)) solution. However, if the underlying hypervisor changes, the NAT IP changes. This can happen when you restart your Instance. The NAT IP lets Instances communicate via an underlying internal network, without public IPs.
```

> During deployment, each Instance created before April 2024 used to get a NAT IP from its hosting node, besides its public IP, which is routed to the Instance through a [carrier-grade NAT](/compute/instances/concepts/#carrier-grade-nat-(cgnat)) solution. However, if the underlying hypervisor changes, the NAT IP changes. This can happen when you restart your Instance. The NAT IP lets Instances communicate via an underlying internal network, without public IPs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to April 2024, all Scaleway Instances got a NAT IP from their hosting node, in addition to their public IP. This NAT IP was routed to the Instance through a [carrier-grade NAT](/compute/instances/concepts/#carrier-grade-nat-(cgnat)) solution. However, if the underlying hypervisor changed, the NAT IP also changed. This could happen when you restarted your Instance. The NAT IP let Instances communicate via an underlying internal network, without public IPs.
```

> During deployment, each Instance created before April 2024 used to get a NAT IP from its hosting node, besides its public IP, which is routed to the Instance through a [carrier-grade NAT](/compute/instances/concepts/#carrier-grade-nat-(cgnat)) solution. However, if the underlying hypervisor changes, the NAT IP changes. This can happen when you restart your Instance. The NAT IP lets Instances communicate via an underlying internal network, without public IPs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to April 2024, all Instances got a NAT IP from their hosting node, which was routed to the Instance through a [carrier-grade NAT](/compute/instances/concepts/#carrier-grade-nat-(cgnat)) solution. This was in addition to the public (flexible) IP. The NAT IP let Instances communicate via an underlying internal network, without public IPs. However, if the underlying hypervisor changed, the NAT IP changed also. This could happen when you restarted your Instance. 
```

> Routing a public IP directly to an Instance bypasses NAT IPs, sending traffic to its [routed flexible IP](/compute/instances/concepts/#routed-flexible-ip). The benefit is the IP stays consistent even if the Instance is restarted or moved. Routed IPs also let you assign multiple flexible IPv4s and IPv6s to an Instance, as both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported (see below for details).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since October 2024 it is no no longer possible to create Instances with NAT IPs. Instead, Instances' public IPs are **routed** IPs. Routing a public IP directly to an Instance bypasses NAT IPs, sending traffic to its [routed flexible IP](/compute/instances/concepts/#routed-flexible-ip). The benefit is the IP stays consistent even if the Instance is restarted or moved. Routed IPs also let you assign multiple flexible IPv4s and IPv6s to an Instance, as both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported.
```

> Using a routed flexible IP is recommended, as it allows precise control over network configurations. It simplifies troubleshooting, ensures compatibility with more applications, and allows for enhanced security monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the benefits explained above, routed IPs allow precise control over network configurations, simplify troubleshooting, ensure compatibility with more applications, and allow for enhanced security monitoring. We recommend that users with Instances still using NAT IPs  move them to routed IPs by following the instructions below. 
```

</Message>

## IPv6 support

> Routed IPs provide flexible IPv6 support. This means one can now assign an IPv6 that will remain the same whenever the Instance is located. Prior routed IPs, IPv6 were assigned per node location, thus whenever an Instance was relocated, its IPv6 was changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routed IPs provide flexible IPv6 support. This means one can now assign an IPv6 address that will remain the same wherever the Instance is located. Before the advent of routed IPs, IPv6 addresses were assigned per node location, thus whenever an Instance was relocated, its IPv6 address was changed.
```

> Routed IPs provide flexible IPv6 support. This means one can now assign an IPv6 address that will remain the same wherever the Instance is located. Before the advent of routed IPs, IPv6 addresses were assigned per node location, thus whenever an Instance was relocated, its IPv6 address was changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Routed IPs provide flexible IPv6 support. This means you can now assign an IPv6 address that will remain the same wherever the Instance is located. Before the advent of routed IPs, IPv6 addresses were assigned per node location, thus whenever an Instance was relocated, its IPv6 address was changed.
```

> However, for the best experience, your Instance must be supported (we won't provide support for EOL Operating Systems).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that for the best experience with IPv6, your Instance must be supported (we do not provide support for EOL Operating Systems).
```

> For IPv6 only you need `cloud-init` version [23.2](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/releases/tag/23.2) or later and `scaleway-ecosystem` version 0.6 or later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For IPv6 only, you need `cloud-init` version [23.2](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/releases/tag/23.2) or later and `scaleway-ecosystem` version 0.6 or later.
```
